README.md, before:

# macOS VirtualBox VM Instructions

*Current macOS version*: Sierra (10.12)

To build a VM running macOS, follow the directions below:

  1. Download the installer from Mac App Store (it should be available in the 'Purchases' section if you've acquired it previously). The installer will be placed in your Applications folder.  (Should work for Yosemite, El Capitan and Sierra - 10.10-10.12.)
  2. If you downloaded the Yosemite installer, run the included `prepare-iso.sh` script (make it executable first, with `chmod +x`, then run `./prepare-iso.sh` from the folder containing the script).  A new installer iso will eventually be saved to the Desktop.
  3. Open VirtualBox and create a new VM.
  4. Set name, type, and version (set to Sierra for 'Version'). (This might not be necessary in the latest VirtualBox release.)
  5. Follow the rest of the VM creation wizard and either leave the defaults or adjust to your liking.
  6. In Terminal, run the command `VBoxManage modifyvm "{vmname}" --cpuidset 00000001 000306a9 00020800 80000201 178bfbff` (where `"{vmname}"` is the exact name of the VM set in step 4) so the VM has the right CPU settings for macOS.
  7. To prevent choppiness in the VM, go into settings and uncheck the 'Enable Audio' option under 'Audio'.
  8. Click 'Start' to boot the new VM.
  9. Select the iso created in step 2 when VirtualBox asks for it.
  10. Once the installer appears, instead of clicking 'Continue', first go to Utilities > Disk Utility and partition/format the VirtualBox disk as a "Mac OS Extended (Journaled)" drive.
  11. Quit Disk Utility, and then continue with installation as normal.

When the installation is complete, and you have a fresh new macOS VM, you can shut it down and create a snapshot so you can go back to the initial state in the future. I use this technique to test the [`mac-dev-playbook`](https://github.com/geerlingguy/mac-dev-playbook), which I use to set up and configure my own Mac workstation for web and app development.

I've noticed that sometimes I need to go in and explicitly mark the iso as a Live CD in the VM settings, in order to get the VM to boot from the image.

## Notes

  - Code for this example mostly comes from VirtualBox forums and [this article](http://sqar.blogspot.de/2014/10/installing-yosemite-in-virtualbox.html).
  - Subsequently updated to support Yosemite - Sierra based on [this thread](https://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=22&t=77068&p=358865&hilit=elCapitan+iso#p358865).
  - I'm currently looking into using Packer (maybe in tandem with Ansible) to automate the process of building a macOS box for VirtualBox. Since the ISO needs to be generated by the end user, it's a bit more involved (i.e. manual download of the original installer image), but not much worse than Packer for linux distros.
    - See also:
      - https://github.com/timsutton/osx-vm-templates
      - https://github.com/AndrewDryga/vagrant-box-osx-mavericks/blob/master/README.md
  - To install command line tools after macOS is booted, open a terminal window and enter `xcode-select --install` (or just try using `git`, `gcc`, or other tools that would be installed with CLI tools).

## Author

This project was created in 2015 by [Jeff Geerling](http://jeffgeerling.com/).

Commit message:

Suggest to increase video memory to 128 MB.
In my experience if left at 16 MB (default) the VM won't boot.

README.md, after:

# macOS VirtualBox VM Instructions

*Current macOS version*: Sierra (10.12)

To build a VM running macOS, follow the directions below:

  1. Download the installer from Mac App Store (it should be available in the 'Purchases' section if you've acquired it previously). The installer will be placed in your Applications folder.  (Should work for Yosemite, El Capitan and Sierra - 10.10-10.12.)
  2. If you downloaded the Yosemite installer, run the included `prepare-iso.sh` script (make it executable first, with `chmod +x`, then run `./prepare-iso.sh` from the folder containing the script).  A new installer iso will eventually be saved to the Desktop.
  3. Open VirtualBox and create a new VM.
  4. Set name, type, and version (set to Sierra for 'Version'). (This might not be necessary in the latest VirtualBox release.)
  5. Follow the rest of the VM creation wizard and either leave the defaults or adjust to your liking. Be sure to at lease increse video memory to 128 MB, otherwise the VM won't boot.
  6. In Terminal, run the command `VBoxManage modifyvm "{vmname}" --cpuidset 00000001 000306a9 00020800 80000201 178bfbff` (where `"{vmname}"` is the exact name of the VM set in step 4) so the VM has the right CPU settings for macOS.
  7. To prevent choppiness in the VM, go into settings and uncheck the 'Enable Audio' option under 'Audio'.
  8. Click 'Start' to boot the new VM.
  9. Select the iso created in step 2 when VirtualBox asks for it.
  10. Once the installer appears, instead of clicking 'Continue', first go to Utilities > Disk Utility and partition/format the VirtualBox disk as a "Mac OS Extended (Journaled)" drive.
  11. Quit Disk Utility, and then continue with installation as normal.

When the installation is complete, and you have a fresh new macOS VM, you can shut it down and create a snapshot so you can go back to the initial state in the future. I use this technique to test the [`mac-dev-playbook`](https://github.com/geerlingguy/mac-dev-playbook), which I use to set up and configure my own Mac workstation for web and app development.

I've noticed that sometimes I need to go in and explicitly mark the iso as a Live CD in the VM settings, in order to get the VM to boot from the image.

## Notes

  - Code for this example mostly comes from VirtualBox forums and [this article](http://sqar.blogspot.de/2014/10/installing-yosemite-in-virtualbox.html).
  - Subsequently updated to support Yosemite - Sierra based on [this thread](https://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=22&t=77068&p=358865&hilit=elCapitan+iso#p358865).
  - I'm currently looking into using Packer (maybe in tandem with Ansible) to automate the process of building a macOS box for VirtualBox. Since the ISO needs to be generated by the end user, it's a bit more involved (i.e. manual download of the original installer image), but not much worse than Packer for linux distros.
    - See also:
      - https://github.com/timsutton/osx-vm-templates
      - https://github.com/AndrewDryga/vagrant-box-osx-mavericks/blob/master/README.md
  - To install command line tools after macOS is booted, open a terminal window and enter `xcode-select --install` (or just try using `git`, `gcc`, or other tools that would be installed with CLI tools).

## Author

This project was created in 2015 by [Jeff Geerling](http://jeffgeerling.com/).
